So although there are few
students, let's start, and while
we do a recap on previous
lecture, the other students
actually can join this session.
So I already started the
recording.
Before I start, I mean I I
decided to change the first
slide to another movie.
Have you seen this movie?
Any of you?
Oh
so this movie actually is it?
I mean from Germany.
It's a very famous movie
regarding the form.
It's called run Lola Run and
this is the.
I mean Dutch in those
language or in German
language, run Lola Run and
basically the one of the
main theme of this movie is
how can you?
How a different initial
state? Of your life, it can
have some consequences that end
up with a totally different
destiny. So I mean, there
are 3 time that this girl
come back to the initial state
and then start doing some
actions and then finally end
with some destiny so.
I put this movie here because
today we are going to study
sequential logic that depends on
the value of the inputs and
based on the.
Sorry about that, I hope
that's the last one.
So yes, I mean today we're gonna
continue as sequential logic
based on adding some inputs to
the sequential logic to control
the behavior of the sequential
circuit. And also we're going to
extract some output out of the.
Sequential circuit, so very
similar to one of the main theme
of this movie. I highly suggest
to see movie this movie
its a great movie so.
Let's continue so so far we
discussed a sequential logic can
be categorized into three main
groups based on the design. The
circuit design. First of all
those that only have flip flops.
We discussed it last lecture and
then we said that now we want to
add some input to the whole
circuit instead of just having
inputs to the flip flops.
And then, uh.
We're gonna add output and
input to the circuit. So today
I'm going to explain this
because this if we know how
this circuit works we covered
this one as well. So I'm going
to continue with this one.
Having the circuit that has
flip flops having inputs and
also having outputs.
So in this category, like the I
mean when we have only flip
flops, we have two main tasks.
First of all the analysis and
then design. So in the analysis
you're given the circuit and you
have to see how many flip flops
you have, how many input you
have, how many output you have.
You have to analyze the
behavior. However, in the design
you are given a problem or
behavior and you have to
implement or design A circuit
that acts. Or behave like the
given behavior in the problem.
So between these two the
analysis task is simpler. So we
saw with the analysis.
When we are dealing a.
With the circuit that has a flip
flops, an inputs plus outputs
there are two different models based
on the type of outputs will
explain this in the few slide,
but based on the output there are two
models. Either the outputs are
based on the Mealy model.
Or based on the moore model.
So basically Mealy George.
Mentally he wasn't mathematician
and computer scientist. And one
interesting fact is that he was
the pioneer for the modular
programming. So in the lab we
suggest you to write modular. So
in the function so he is the
pioneer of this pattern.
Basically what he says is that
he says the output of a
sequential circuit is a function
of the current state, meaning
that the flip flops in the
circuit and the value of the
inputs. So we'll see this in
few slides, but moore. He was
also a mathematician and
computer scientist. He said that
in order to come up with this
simplest and also better design,
it's better to make an output
only a function of the current
state or the flip flops.
So we'll see this in our example
today. What's the difference?
And you'll see that the moore is
right. Actually, if the output is
only a function of the memory
units or flip flops, it's a
better design. However, if the
output is. Considers the.
Memory units and also the
inputs. It is kind of more
complex. And introduce some. I
mean behaviors that we don't
like that. So let's continue.
Here is the difference based on
the I mean block diagram for a
circuit. So basically what
Mealy says that if you have
some outputs plus some flip
flops here, so these are the
flip flops, memory states or
memory units working with the
Clock. So basically it
says that.
The output not only can have
inputs from the memory states,
but also can accept the value of
inputs. So there are two sources
plus some combinational circuit
or combination of. I mean logic
to produce the value of the
output. However, moore says that
it's better to limit the output
only a function of the memory
units. So you see that there is
no direct connection from the
inputs to the circuit.
For the output, so this is the
main difference and will see in
our example what does this mean?
So basically we start our
example with the moore model,
which is a simpler embedded
design and then will extend it
to the Mealy and see what
happens if we follow the Mealy
model. So the Mealy and moore is
only about the type of the
output of the circuit. However,
regarding the design for the
flip flops and the inputs, it
doesn't matter. In both models
they are the same.
So let's start an analysis task
by an example. When we have
input an output and the output
is based on the moore model.
So here is the recap of what we
did when we only have memory
units or flip flops. So when we
you're here are the steps. So
basically we have to see
whether the given circuit you
are given a circuit to analyze
that. So you have to see
whether the given circuit is a
sequential or combinational.
If you see a flip flop or feedback
it means that that's a
sequential. If the circuit is
sequential, you have to see what
are the flip flops. The type of
flip flops RS ,D ,T , JK. You
have to recall the
characteristic table for each
flip flops. Or or are they are a
mixed for instance 2 JK one RS
etc. And then you have to
see how many different is that
you're gonna have. So
basically 2 to the power of
number of flip flops you have
to form this state table. This
table for each flip flop has
two columns, one for the
current state of that Flip
flop, one for the next state
and also the number of rows
are based on the number of
combinations we did calculate
in the item 2.
And then you have to fill out
the state table and then form the
state transition diagram, which
is a I mean pictorial way to
show the lifecycle of the
circuit and then optionally
finally you can analyze the
different paths between these
states. In this state transition
diagram. So when we add input
and output based on the moore
model, some steps we have to
adjust or revise some steps. So
we'll see. How we have the same
step but with different I mean
uh? Uh, calculations.
So basically the number of
states is not a 2 to the power
of number flip-flop anymore. The
state table have more columns.
And also filling out this table
you have to consider the value
of inputs and outputs and also
in this state transition diagram
there are some additional
elements, so we'll see what are
these changes when we have input
on outputs. So the first one is
exactly the same. You are given
a circuit and you have to see
whether the second is sequential
or combinational. You have to
look at whether you have just.
At least one flip flop or at
least one feedback from output
to the input. And then you say
that this is a sequential
circuit. I have to follow the
sequential an analyzing a
sequential circuit. This steps
for that if this combinational
it's like the I mean three weeks
ago when we have only logic
gates. Input value determines
the output values.
So here is the given sample.
Given a circuit, you see that
in this circuit you have two
flip flops, one of them JK
one of them T. So definitely
this is a sequential circuit.
Also you see that there is
additional input X.
Also additional output Y, so
that's the sequential circuit
that has one input binary
variable in the input and one
binary output in the circuit.
So the next question like before
is that what are the flip flops?
So one is the JK. So you have
to recall the behavior of the
JK flip flop JK 00 stores.
J1 K Zero set J0 K1.
Reset and 11 compliment.
The T flip flop if the T is
zero it stores. If T is 1
it complements the current
state. So you have to recall
the characteristic table.
And we have two flip flops here.
So basically the number of
different states that this
circuit gonna have is 2 to the
power of number of flip flops.
Plus because we have input.
So basically here we have an
input, so the input we have only
one binary variable, so with .1
binary variable we can have
either X is 0 or X is 1. So two
different directions for this
circuit so. You have to consider
the different values of the
input as well. So 2 to the power
of inputs. The number of inputs.
Here we have only one by new
variable, so that when you're
ready we can be 0 or 1 two
states. If you have two input
variables, we're gonna have four
or two to the power of two
different values for the input.
So in total the whole circuit
gonna have two to the power of
number of flip flops, plus
number of inputs.
For instance, here we have two
flip flops. So 2 to the power of
2. Multiplied by ther are 2 different
states for X as a binary input.
So 2 to the power of 2 + 1.
Eight combinations for the whole
circuit, not only the flip flops
but also the input variables.
This is the change to our
analysis step.
You have to consider the number
of binary inputs. And then after
that you have to form this state
table. So this table have the
same element as we already
discussed when we only have
memory units for each flip flop
we have to add 2 columns, one of
them for the current state, one
of them for the next state, but
it has two additional column,
not two additional two
additional columns. One set of
column is for the inputs for
based on the number of input
variables you have to create
columns also for the output.
you have to add more
columns. So in our example we
have one binary variable in the
input, so we have to create one
column for the X. Also we have
one binary variable in the
output, so we have to create one
column for the output as Y.
So if you have two output have to
add 2 columns, if you had two
inputs, you have to add 2
inputs. So basically this is the
change to this state column. We
have to add additional columns
for inputs and outputs the
number of rows depends on the
number of different state the
whole circuit gonna have, which
we calculate in this item. So 2
to the power of number of flip
flops plus number of inputs.
So as you can see here, we have
two flip flops A & B. We have one
binary inputs. So in total we're
going to have three, I mean 2 to
the power of three or eight
different combinations. So we
gonna have 8 rows.
So in the left side of the state
table, the current state of the
flip flops and the inputs in the
right side the current, the next
state of the flip flops and the
outputs. This is, uh, the state
table when we have inputs and
outputs, you can see that this
state table is very similar to
a. Truth table in the
combinational logic where we
have only inputs and outputs.
So for instance, we have two
three inputs ABX and we have
three outputs YAB, but here A&B.
You have there are flip flops,
not binary variables, that we
have current state and next
state. That's the difference of
the state table and the truth
table in combination logic.
The next task is
to fill out this.
State table in the book. Or you
can see in other resources that
there is alternative way to show
the state table when you have
inputs and this is another way.
So basically they say that
because based on different value
of the input, the circuit gonna
go into different directions.
We can, instead of creating a
column for the input, we can say
that what happens based on the
different value of the input
variables to the next system. So
we have the columns for the
current state of the flip flops,
A&B at the current time.
So we say that what happens to
these flip flops in the next
state when the input we have
only one input variable. So when
the X is 0?
So one set of columns for the
next state when the X is 0, or
what happens if the input
variable is 1. So a new set of
columns for the next state for
the flip flops. When the X is 1
and also this is the same column
for the output. So kind of
distributing the input variables
to the right side of the table
based on different values of the
input variables. What happens to
the next state of the flip
flops? Uh, personally, I prefer
this one because it has left
side and right side and we have
we put different value of the
input here. But this is the
way that sometimes you can
follow, and this is the way
that the book actually
follows. So we continue with
this one, but it can. At home
you can practice this state
table as well, no big
difference.
Only the difference is the way
you put the put the values in
the cells of the state table.
So let's fill out this state
table. So when you create this
table, you have to fill out this
table so. The left side.
Is a all the different
combinations for the flip flops
and the input variables, so the
flip flops can have the state
00. And the input might be 0.
The flip flop can have 01, the
input is zero and it's also the
input. Gonna be either zero or
one and the flip flops can have
these different states.
You can see that when the flip
flops are at the State 00 here.
The X is either zero or one.
So you see that based on
different value of input
variables, there are two
states for each. The
combination of the flip
flops.
So again, very similar to the
combination of logic. Imagine
you have only three binary
variables, so you're going to
have two to the power
of 3, or eight different
combinations or possibilities.
So then when you create the fill
out that left side, you have to
see what happens if you are
given this state in the circuit
in the next time interval in the
next state. So what are the
value of A&B in the next time?
And also what are the value?
What is the value of the
output if you have two outputs
what are the value of the two
outputs? So if you look at the
circuit you see that the
output is only the AND of a.
and B.
So basically Y is equal to A&B
and you see that there is no
direction from the input.
To the output, no connection to a
from X to Y. So that's why this is
the moore model, meaning that the
Y only depends on the value of
flip flops or the current state.
It doesn't depend on the
input. That's why we call
this moore model.
So in order to fill out the
right side, the easy column is
the output, because the output
only depends on the current
value of the flip flops. So Y
is A&B, for instance, for this
row A IS 0 ,B is 0, so the Y gonna
be 0 in this row is zero, A is
1, the and of them gonna be 0
and etc. So basically as I said,
Y is based on the moore model?
X is not involved, so you have
to only consider the current
value of the A&B and put the
value for the Y.
So the only time that the value
becomes one is when A&B are one
here. So here when the A&B are
both one, the Y gonna be 1.
So filling out the Y very
easy. Just look at the
current value of the flip
flops and put the value.
See also it becomes one when the
A is 1 and B is 1 here.
So it doesn't depend
on the value of X.
And then the next step is after
filling out the Y, you have to
fill out what Is going to be
the next value of each flip
flop. So we already saw how we
can do that, but the only
difference here is that not only
you have to be careful about the
current value of the flip flop.
Also, you have to be careful
about the input of the flip flop
and the differences here. The
input of the flip flops.
Depends on the value of the
input variable X.
So you see that a for the J
input depends on the AND of B
and the X from the input, so.
JA, the input for the J is X&B,
so you have to be not only
careful about the value of B,
but also the value of the input
variables. That's the difference
when you have inputs, so a
currently is zero. We can see
here the JA is B.
And with X. So currently B is
0. X is zero, and of these two
becomes 0. KA, another input of
a flip flop. It depends on the
bar. He is zero followed by not
becomes one. So 01 is the reset
action. So whatever the current
is that gonna be 0.
Next state so.
It does reset.
For the next state of the B,
when the current value is 0, the
input for the B as you can see
here, also has an input from X.
It means that the T for the B flip
flop is X and.
What are the next input for
the AND? It comes from the
A, so a.
And X.
So currently a is zero, and X is
0 so 00 and  with zero. When we
have zero in the T flip flop, it
means that the store. So
currently we have 0 we store it, so
the next step for the B flip flop
gonna be zero.
So the same way you have to fill
out all other cells for the next
state of A&B. As I said, the
difference is you have to pay
attention to the value of X
because the input to the T &JK
has inputs for the from the X.
So. If you fill out all the
other cells, uh, I just put on a
question mark here just to ask
you what's going to be the this
cell. The value for the next
state of P when the current
state of A is 1,B is zero and X
is 1. So.
Think about this right now
and give me the answer in
the chat box.
So for this one you have
to see what's the current
value of B, which is 0.
Currently is 0.
The input to the T flip-flop comes
from a, so a is 1.
X. X is 1, so
one and one.
Becomes one, so the input
to the T flip flop is 1.
What happens when we have
one in the T flip flop?
So anybody in the chat box?
So noniko says that it becomes one
at the Clock. Justin says that
zero. So first of all, when
we have one in the T flip
flop, what happens in the
first positive edge?
In the T flip-flop. Ah.
Correct, Justin yes toggles,
so the current when we have
won the T flip flop, meaning
it does complement on the
current state or toggles. So
currently B is 0. If you
toggle that it becomes one. So
no Noniko is correct. So
basically here is the result.
Currently B 0 the input to the
T flip flop.
Is X and a X and A,A is 1,X is
1, so one and one becomes one
when you have one in the T
flip flop it toggles, so zero
becomes one.
And here is the value, so
the same is for the all other
cells. You have to see
what's the current state,
what is the input to the
flip flop based on the
value of X.
So.
Here is the recap. When we have
inputs and outputs so far, so
they state table. Gonna have two
additional columns for inputs
and outputs the in order to fill
out you have to consider the
value for the outputs. Also,
when you fill out the next state
you have to consider the value
of the input variables the X. So
after filling out the state table we
have to form the state
transition. Diagram so before we
saw that the state transition
diagram is a diagram that for
each state we haven't known and
from one state to another state
or from one node to another
node. We haven't directed Edge
which says basically says that
at the next positive edge this
states the transition between
these states. Here we have input
and outputs. So in order to
include the value of the input
and output is a state transition
diagram. We have to label the
edges and the nodes and we'll
see how we can do that.
So for this circuit we have only
two flip flops A&B. So the
number of states gonna be 4
different states based only on
the flip flops or the memory.
And it's either a is zero. B is 0 A
is 1,B is zero, A is 0, B is 1 and a
is 1, B is 1.
So again, this is very
similar when when we don't
have any input or output.
What the value of the X instead
of going inside this state?
Because it's not memory unit,
it's a input variable goes on
top of the edges.
So the label on edges shows the
value of the input variable or
X. Here we have only one input
variable. We have only one digit
on each edge is, so basically it
says that when we are correctly
as the state 00 men, meaning
that the value of the flip flops
are 00. And the input
is zero. We continue to
go on the same state.
If the input variable change
to one is still we stay in
the 00 state, so let's back
to the state table.
So basically here is the state
table, so if X is zero and the
current state is 00, we end up
with 00 in the next state.
Also, if the X is 1.
And the current state is 00. We
end up with 00.
So here is the state transition
diagram. As long as we are in
00, whether the input is zero or
one, we stay in the same state.
We don't change the value of the
flip flops or memory.
However, let's look at
this example.
When we have, when we are
in the 10 state, meaning
that the current value of
the flip flops are 10.
If the value of input is
zero, we stay in the same
state. We don't change the
value of the memory unit .
However, if you change the X
to one, it makes the
transition from 1 zero to 1
one.
So let's back to the state
table. So if the X is 0 and
we are at 10.
The next step is still 10.
However. If you're at 10.
And the X changes is to one.
We moved to 11.
And this transition happens when
the first positive edge comes.
As long as we don't have any
positive edge, there is no
transition. X is also one, and
the current state is 010, but as
long as the first positive edge
comes, we do the transition
because you can see that the
flip flops are synchronized with
the positive edge of the Clock.
So when the first positive edge
comes with Transit to 11.
And here is the state
transition.
If you add 1 zero and the input
is X, the input X is equal to 1.
We wait up until the first
positive edge when the first
positive edge comes we transit to
next State 11.
So the value of X goes on top of
the directed edges.
However, we also have outputs,
so where we can include the
output in the state diagram.
The outputs because we are
following the moore model, which
means that the output only
depends on the current state of
the flip flops, so it doesn't
depend on the value of the
input. So we can put the label
on each node or on each state
for the Y for the output
variable. So as you can see,
let's back to be a state table.
As long as the current state is
00, the Y is A&B so the Y
gonna be 0.
So here again, 00 Y gonna
be 0. It doesn't depend on
the value of X, so let's
back to the state
transition. As long as we
are at state 00, then Y
gonna be 0?
However, if you're at State 01,
they AND gonna be a still
0 10 0. The only time that the
output is one is when we are at
the State 11.
So here is how we include the
output to the state transition
diagram, so the input value goes
on top of the edges and the
output value goes inside the
state or inside the.
One thing is that.
How long we can produce one in
the output for Y?
The thing is, let's back to
the state table.
You see that as long as a.
Is 1, B is one you see that here.
If the X becomes one.
We have to still the Y
depends on A&B so.
Is 1.
However, if the first positive
edge comes. The one one Transit
to 01 and then when we do the
transition now the A becomes
one. And B is 0, so Y is not
one anymore? So let's practice
the transition. So if you are at
1 one and we have one in the
input. As long as there is no
positive edge, there is no
transition, so we can produce
one in the output.
However, if the first
positive edge comes we
transit to the next state.
Which is here an as long when we
end up with this state. Y
changes to 0?
So this is the way actually
shows that the Y only
depends on the state.
And then optionally you can do
some more analysis in order to
figure out what's the problem
with the design with the
circuit, and in order to improve
the circuit if there's any
problem. For instance, in this
design you see that.
There's a life lock in the
circuit. If at some point this
circuit goes to the state 00 in
the flip flops.
You can never get away from
that, because if even if you
change the input to 0 or in the
X one I iT stucks in this
state, it never actually escape
from this state and the Y value
is always 0.
So this is the problem
with the circuit and
you have to fix this.
It states you have to change
the circuit in order to. For
instance, if you change the
value of X, it transit to
another states.
Uh.
Any questions so far?
No questions.
So. Now I wanna just a
little bit explain what happens
if we have an output based on
the Mealy Model.
So imagine we do a little bit of
change to the circuit. The only
change is this. We attach X to
the AND for the Y output.
So now, Y not only depends on
the state of the flip flops, but
also it depends on the value of
the input. So Y is
this flip flop AND with this
flip flop. A&B&X.
So let's see what happens when
we do that. So the first
thing that happens is that before
this, if you don't have this
link, Y only depends on this
flip flop and this flip flop.
A and B. And A and B only changes
when the positive edge
comes because they are
synchronized with Clock.
So because Y was only depend
on the A&B, the value of Y
sync was synchronized by the
Clock as well, because Y
depends only on A and B, and A and B only
changes when the positive edge
comes, so Y was synchronized
with the Clock 2. However, now
X doesn't depend on the
Clock. X can be changed anytime
anyway. So X is not synchronized
with the Clock.
When we attach X to this end,
Y is not synchronized anymore
with the Clock, because Y now
depends on the X. As long as
X changes, Y changes too. So
this is one problem with Mealy
Design. That's why Moore says
that "let's limit Y to be
dependent on
the flip flops". This way we
can synchronize Y based on
the Clock, but if you attach
the input to the output based
on the Mealy model, the Y
actually loses the
synchronization with the
Clock and depends on the
input variable. Whenever the
X changes, the Y changes. This
is one problem.
And if we consider that in the
state table, Y is A&B&X so the
value now changes and we have to
consider the value of X. So the
only time now where the Y becomes one
is if A is 1, B is 1 and the
input is 1.
That was the case when
we only have Y depends on
A and B, which was one. Now
because it depends on X, X is
zero, so it becomes.
That's the change that based
on the Mealy Model, which happens
to the state table because
now Y is A&B&X.
And there is another change to
the state transition diagram.
So the state transition diagram
in terms of the number of
states, this is the A&B
00 01 10 11. 1 for the A&B flip flop.
And the label for the edges.
The input X, here it's 0, here it's 1
and etc. The red label
is for the X the same as the
Moore model, but here because the
output depends on the input,
it goes on the edge because we
have to consider the value of X
as well. So for instance here if
you are at the State 10.
And the input is 1.
We produce the value
of zero in the output.
As long as we are at 1 zero and
the input is 1, so one AND one
AND zero becomes zero. However,
if the first positive edge
comes. We transit from this
state to this state.
So now one one and the input is
one, so we produce
1.
Up until the next positive edge.
Before the next positive edge,
we produce one. If the next
positive edge comes, we transit
from 11 to 01 and now the output
gonna be 0.
The input is 1.
The state is 01. The AND
of three becomes 0, so the
output value goes
on the edges because it
depends on the value of X.
So that was the analysis of a
sequential circuit when we
have the inputs and outputs, and
one thing you have to pay
attention is that the output is
based on the Moore model or Mealy
model. If it depends on the
Moore model, which is simply saying that
the output only depends on the
memory units or the flip flops.
However, if it is based on the
Mealy Model, you have to
consider the value of input
when you calculate the value
of the output binary
variables. In this example, we
only have one binary input and
one binary output. But
sometimes you might have
multiple inputs and multiple
outputs.
So now I'm going to go to
the design step.
So we did an analysis of a
circuit when we have input and
output and memory units. Now we
want to design the circuit based
on the inputs and outputs. So
before this new topic, if
there are any questions, I can
answer that. This is the
time for your questions so,
please ask questions. If there's
no question, it means that
there might be some problem.
No questions?
So at least give me some
feedback so that I can make
sure that you're listening
to the lecture.
Thank you Zack.
Thank you Justin.
Thank you, cool.
Dennis, Gabe, Ryan. Thank you.
Thank you Marco, Josh. So far
so good it seems, so let's continue
with the design.
Again, by an example, I'm going
to explain how can we design a
circuit that has memory units,
inputs and outputs.
So here is our example problem.
We already designed
a counter which was counting
from zero to 7. Now I want to do
a little bit of change to that
problem. I want to design a
circuit that does counting up and
down. Basically two different
behaviors. And I want to
design a circuit that does these
two behaviors in one circuit, not
two different circuits. So
basically I want to provide the
behavior that, as long as I
asked the circuit to do counting
up, it does. If the current
number is I,
it adds one unit, so from I it goes
to I + 1.
From I + 1, it goes to I + 2
and etc. So basically if you are
going to count up from zero to
7, 0123. However, when we are for
instance at three, I might
change my decision and what I
want to ask the circuit to do is
to count down. For instance,
if you are at three now, I want
to switch to count down. So we
want to move on from 3 to 2, from
2 to 1, from 1 to 0.
So if the current number is 1,
for instance I, I want to countdown
to I - 1.
So basically I want to design
one single circuit that has
two behaviors: either counting
up or counting down. Also,
the problem says that I want
to output or turn on a light
or for instance, open a door
or any indicator. I want
to indicate if the current
number is even or not.
So you see that we have a
problem. We have a
behavior problem that has
two different behaviors
and also has one output.
So let's design this.
So the design step is very
similar to the design step when
we don't have any input or
output, but with a little bit of
changes. The first question is
that when you design a circuit,
you have to ask firstly, do you
need a memory unit or not?
Are you going to design a
sequential circuit or
combinational circuit? And the
answer depends on the storage
unit. If you need a storage
or memory unit, it means that
you are going to design a
sequential circuit.
Otherwise, if you don't need any
memory, you are designing
a combinational circuit and
you know already how to do that
based on the sum of minterms or
product of maxterms and etc.
So here for counting up and
down. So for counting up, you
have to count 0123. We already
said that in order to do
counting, you have to memorize
what's the current number in
order to do counting. If you
do counting up, if the current
state is 3, the next number
gonna be 4. If you do counting
down again, you have to memorize
the current number, and if you
do counting down from
3, it goes to two. From two goes to
one. So you need to memorize
the current number.
So that's why you need
memory. You have to design a
circuit and the next question
is that so now that you need
a storage or memory, how much
storage do you need or how many
flip flops do you need?
So if we are going to count up
until the maximum 7.
We know that 7 in binary
system gonna be 111. So in
total, we are gonna need 3 bits to
store a number. So 3 bits
means that we need 3 flip
flops. If we are counting
up, 000 goes to 001 and then
goes to 010 and etc up until
7.
Imagine you are at 100, meaning
it is four, and we change our mind
and we wanted to do counting
down from four. We have to
store 4 = 100. Now we change our
mind, we want to countdown. We
move to 011 which is 3. So
you see that from one number, we
can either count up or
countdown. In order to do
that, we have to store the
current number.
So we need 3 flip flops.
But the only difference, there's one
difference between the design of
the circuit that only has flip
flops, and this problem is that
now you have to see whether you
need input and output or not. So
not only do you have to think about
how many memory units you need,
you have to think about whether you
need inputs or outputs. So in
the problem, it says that we want
to design a circuit that has
two distinct behaviors, either
counting up or down, so it
implies that you need to switch
between two directions or
two behaviors. In order to ask a circuit
to act between two different
directions, how many variables
do you need? One binary
variable because with one binary
variable, you can produce either
zero or one.
So you can say that if the input
variable is zero, we do counting
up. If the X is one, we do
counting down. So by using only
one binary variable in the
input, we can control the
behavior of the circuit.
So how many binary variables are in
the output unit? So the problem
says that we want to output one
if the number, the current
number is even, so basically we
only need one binary variable in
the output, because determining
whether the number is even or
not even depends on
only one binary variable. If Y
is 1, it means that the number is
even. If Y is 0, it means that the
number is not even.
So the number of output variable
is going to be only one.
We can pick a name for that.
Y. So here we determine
the number of input binary
variables, and output binary
variables.
So again, you have to see
how much different behaviors
the problem asks you amnd based on
the different behaviors, you
have to figure out how many
binary variables you need
for the input, and again you
have to look at the problem
and see what is going to be
the output. And based on the
output, you have to determine
how many binary variables
you need for the output.
And after you figure out the
number of flip flops, the
number of inputs, and the
number of outputs you have to
form the state transition
diagram to analyze the
behavior.
So in the problem it says that
we want to do counting up and we
determined that if the X is zero, we
do counting up. So here's the
state transition diagram. Zero.
If the input is zero, we go to
one. If the input is zero, we go
to two, and etc, up until when
you're at six.
And if the input is zero, we go to
7 and again, the problem
doesn't say that if from 7 the
input is 0, where should we go? But we
discussed this last lecture, so
we can either stay stuck in seven or
we can loop to 0. This is our
design choice, so we follow this
design choice that if the input
is 0 and we are at 7, if you do
counting up, we loop back to 0.
However, if the behavior is
counting down, if the input
gonna be 1.
We introduce X, but the problem
says that the counting down
gonna be like this. Because we
introduce X to control their
behavior, if X is 1,
from 7, we countdown to 6.
If the X is 1, from 6, we
countdown to 5 and up
until zero and from zero
again, this is a design
choice. Either we can stay
stuck at 0, or we can loop
back to 7.
If you put all these two
together, as long as the input
is zero, we do counting up.
If at some point we change the
input to one. For instance, if
you are at four and we change
the input to one, we countdown.
So based on the value of the
input, we can control whether
to count up or count down.
How about the output
variables? We have to include the
output variables. Here, because the
output only depends on
whether the memory units or the
current number is even or not
even, and the current number is
stored in the flip flops, we
follow the Moore model.
As long as the number we are
storing is even, we output one.
If it's not even, we output 0.
So if you are at zero, it is
even. If you are at one, it is
odd. It's not even. If you're at
two, it is even, and if you're at
three, it's odd and etc.
So we include the value of
the output in this state
transition diagram.
So, we have the completed the state
transition diagram and after the
completed state transition
diagram, we can form the
state table and then fill out
this table. So we already know
from what state based on the
what value of the X where should we go to
the next state. So based on
what is going to be the value of
Y, so forming the state table
would be very easy.
And here is the state table.
So as long as the
value of X is 0,
we do counting up. So zero goes
to 1, 1 goes to 2, two goes to 3,
three goes to four and up until
here. Six goes to 7 and
7, this is our design
choice. We loop back to 0 if
we do counting up.
However, if X is one, we
countdown. From zero back
to 7. From one, you count down
back to 0. 2 to 1. 3 to 2. Up until 7. Seven
counts down to six.
And then the value of Y
depends only on the current
value of A&B&C.
So, this is based on the.
Moore model, so zero is even.
One is not even.
Two is even up,
until the last row.
So we fill
out the state table.
And here is the completed
state table for the left
side and for the right side.
So what is the next step?
Anybody in the chat box? So
we have the completed state
table. We are ready to
design the circuit. What's
going to be the next step?
Recall what we did.
In the last lecture, when we
have the state table, we are ready
to design the circuit.
So the next question is?
Marco, yes, but before the
Boolean expression, we write the
Boolean expression for what?
For the transition between
the flip flops, but we
haven't decided what type of
flip flops we need.
So the next question is, now that I'm
ready to design the circuit, we have
to pick up my flip flops, so the
next step is what type of flip flop
do you wanna choose in order to
store the correct number?
So, we have four different types:
RS, D, T, JK or we can choose
a mixture of them.
So in this problem I wanna try a
mixture. So I want to choose one
T flip flop, 1 D flip flop and
one JK flip flop just to see
if it is possible to design a
sequential logic based on a
mixture of flip flops.
In the last lecture we only used
JK because JK was the
complete flip flop. But here I
just wanted to show you that it
is possible to memorize a bit
using any type of flip flop.
Even if you choose D or T.
Even if you choose RS
flip flop.
So imagine these are the
flip flops. So for the A,
the first bit of the number, the
JK. For the second bit of the
number, the D flip flop, and for the
third bit of the number, the T flip
flop. All are synchronized by
the Clock and all are working
based on the positive edges.
We have one input variable
to control whether to do
the counting up and down.
We have one output which
shows whether the current
number which we stored in
the A B C is even or not.
The next step is that, as Marco says, we
have to provide the input
variable and input functions or the
excitation equations for each
flip flop. Also, we need the Boolean
function for Y.
So let's start with the input of
equations or excitation
equations for the flip flops.
And after that, minimize it.
So. Here we have 3 flip flops. A
is JK, so we have to see what
is going to be the Boolean
function for JA and KA because it's
a JK flip flop.
For the B flip flop, it's a D type,
so we have to only
see what is the equation for the D
input. The C is a type T flip
flop, and a T Flip Flop has only
one input. You have to see what
the function is for the T input.
But the important
thing here is that,
because we have inputs, the
Boolean function or the
excitation equations for each of
the input for the flip flops not
only depends on the current
value. Also, it depends on the
value of the input variables.
So you see that F is the
function of A B C and the input.
Remember, it doesn't
mean that we are following the
Mealy Model. Mealy and Moore is
about the output.
Here you are not dealing with
the output so far, so we are
trying to figure out what the
input to the flip flops, so this
is not discussing about the I mean
Mealy or Moore model.
So for the excitation
equations, for each flip flop,
you have to consider the
current state and the value of
the input because X controls
the transition between these
states.
So let's start with the A
flip flop.
Back to the state table, we see
that for the A flip flop,
Zero transits to one
at the first row.
So in order to apply this
transition, A is a JK. So we
add some columns and these are
not formal columns of the
state table. It just helps us to
figure out what's going to be
the value of J&K.
So excitation for A.
In order to transit from zero to
one, either you did set,
meaning that the J is 1 and K is 0, or
you did compliment,
meaning that both inputs are one.
So if you consider both actions,
J is always 1 and K doesn't matter.
The 2nd row, A transits from
1 to 0. Either you did reset or you
did compliment or toggle.
So in both cases, K must be one.
The value of J doesn't matter.
And etc. This is very similar to
the way we fill out the
excitation equations when we
didn't have any input or output.
But the thing is, you have to
continue even if the X is 1. So
again, 0 to 1 in this row: set or
complement. 1 to 0: reset or
compliment. So.
The value of JK for the
transition A to the next state
when the X is 0 or
when the X is 1.
So then you have to write out
the Boolean function or
excitation equation
for A. So based on this.
The minterm that makes the J = 1
is 000.
And you have to consider the
input value here. So this is the
minterm 0. Given
four variables.
This one is minterm 2.
Up until, for instance here,
this minterm: 1010,
which is the minterm 10.
This is the minterm
12. So 1100, the minterm 12 makes
it one and etc.
And all the entries where we put
don't care, we just put it here.
So JA is the sum of the minterms 0 2 4 6 8 10
12 14 plus the don't care
conditions. The same for
the K, so the K becomes one
in these minterms.
Up until here, for
instance, in this minterm,
this is the minterm 15.
So you see that when we
write out the minterms, we
consider the value of X.
Then let's move on to the next
one. The B flip flop.
The B flip flop is of type D. For
the D flip flop, we only have
one input so we have to see
what's the equation for the D
flip flop.
So, for the B flip flop which is of
Type D. B from zero goes to
0. In the D flip flop, it doesn't
have the store action or the
complement action. It only has
reset or set action. So when we
move from zero to 0, it means
that we did reset.
In the next row, we move
from zero to 1, meaning
that we did set.
In the next row from one,
we move to the one, so it
means that we did set.
Up until the last row.
So in the D flip flop, either we
do reset or set. You see that in
the D flip flop, we never have a
don't care condition because
we are only able to do 1
action, either set or reset.
And then we have to write the
excitation equation for the D
based on the minterms.
For instance, here, D becomes
one. This is the minterm 1.
Or this 1, D becomes one.
So this is the minterm. As
you can see here, this is
the minterm 12.
And the last one. This is the
minterm 15. So you write out the
minterms for the input for the
D. And again, don't care
condition never happens in
the D flip flop.
So we continue to write out the
excitation equation for T.
So in the T flip flop, remember,
either we do a store or toggle
or complement. So in the first
row, C is zero to zero. We did a store.
So the T input gonna be 0.
From zero to 0. 0 to 0, so store. In
this row we did from
0 to 1. It means that we did a
complement or toggle, so in
order to do that, we have to
input T as one.
So the same for all other
rows, for instance here.
From one, we moved to the zero.
It means that we did a toggle or
compliment, so the input must be
one to the T flip flop. And then
you have to write out which
minterms makes the T = 1. So this
is the minterm three.
This is minterm
7. This is the minterm 8
etc. So when you write out
the minterms, you consider
the value of X.
And again for a T flip
flop, you don't see they
don't care condition
because either you do a store
or compliment.
So then you have to minimize
the excitation equation.
What's going to be the
number of variables?
Anybody in the chat box?
So for instance, if I want to
minimize the J or K or D or
T.
How many
variables do we need for the K-map?
4 yes. Marco correct. We need
a four variable K-map to
minimize the equations.
So because not only do we consider
ABC, also, we consider the X
when we write the minterms.
So here are the Karnaugh Maps. For
the A flip flop, this is a JK
flip flop, so we have to
minimize the J&K.
So if you put the minterms,
that makes the output one and
see the don't care, you see that
basically, you can create one
single region of all cells.
Meaning that JA must always be one.
The KA, the same, always one.
For the input to the B flip
flop, if you put the minterm one
and the minterm that makes it 0,
these are the cells so that you
can minimize it. If you write
out this region, you see that
you will end up with the
exclusive or of the A B and X.
Again, whenever you see
diagonal cells,
it's a hint that there are
some exclusive or's involved in
the equation.
And also for the T flip flop, if
you minimize it, it becomes only
two terms. This term and this term.
So after minimization, the
next step is, you have another
output function, so you have
to write out the Boolean
function for the output and
you have to minimize it.
This is the different when you
have the output. So for the output,
you are done with the next
state. You have to write a
Boolean function for the output,
so this is very simple. You
write out the output Boolean
function based on the current
value of the flip flops.
So this is the minterm.
Again, remember you
shouldn't consider the X because
Y only depends on the current
number. So Y, this is the
minterm zero.
Here is the same state.
So minterm 0, minterm 0. So you
just write that one minterm 0.
Here is minterm one. Also here.
m1. So you have duplicate
minterms. Because you have to
only consider the A B C.
So here is the Y. But the thing
is, even if by some mistake you
consider the X when you write
out the minterms for Y. I
crisscrossed out this because
this is a mistake, but even if
you do this mistake, you see
that this mistake actually
doesn't make it a disaster. So
imagine, put it in your in the
corner of your mind, if you do
this mistake and you consider the
value of X. And you write out
the Boolean function for Y based
on the minterms from eight,
10, 12 and 14. For these minterms,
for instance here. This is the
minterm 12. Or this is the minterm
14, so even if you consider
the X by mistake,
we will see that it doesn't make a
mistake in the final design.
So in order to minimize the Y,
you need a three variable K-map.
By mistake, you could use a four
variable K-map.
By minimizing the three variables A B C,
Y becomes A prime.
As I said, even if you
consider X and you put the
value of the minterms given
considering the X variable and
you minimize it with the four
variable Karnaugh map, you'll
see that after the
minimization, the X gonna
disappear.
Because Y only depends on A B C.
It never depends on X, whether it
is zero or one. That's why in
the simplification, it
disappears. Even if you do
this mistake.
And finally, you have to sketch
the logic circuit and test it.
So here is the input for
the A. 11.
Here is the input for the B flip
flop. X exclusive or with A
exclusive or with B.
Here is the input to the C
flip flop. So A bar,
B bar, and then X. A bar, B bar
and then X OR
B, A and X bar.
A, B and X bar.
And Y is only A bar.
So here is the final circuit you
designed for this problem. You can
test this design at home, so you
could say that for instance, if
you are at 101, at the current
numbre 5, if X is zero, it should go to
to six. If X is 1, it should go
back to four. So we can try this
to check whether we
correctly designed the circuit.
And finally. If I change the problem a
little bit and say
that we want to design a counter
that does up and down
based on the value of
input. X = 0 counts up and X = 1 counts
down. Now the value of Y.
If we do count up and the number
is even, we want to make it 1.
Otherwise, we wanna make it 0.
However, if you do count down
and the number is odd, we wanna
make it 1. So you see that the
value of Y in this problem
depends whether we do counting
up or down, so you have to
design this circuit based on the
Mealy Model because the problem
says that the value of the
output depends on whether you do
counting up or down.
So there is no other way
to design this problem
based on the Moore model.
So you can try this at home and
see what happens when you design
a problem based on the Mealy
Model.
That's the only difference based
on the outputs, whether they do
Mealy or Moore. And I'm done
with today's lecture. So now we
can design a sequential circuit
that has input, output and
memory units. This is the
complete algorithm to design a
sequential circuit. You already
know how to design a combination
circuit. Now that you know how to
design a sequential circuit, you
are ready to design a computer
system which we are gonna do next
week. Any questions? I'm happy to
answer your questions.
Thank you Marco. Anybody else?
You can
raise your hand or you can put
your question in the chat box.
You too, have a great day.
So it seems there
is no question so,
thank you everybody
and have a great day.
You too Justin.